doc/general/general.adoc, before:

== General Topics
=== Host
The fulfillmenttools API is served over HTTPS. A tenant will get his own host once the corresponding
environment has been created. The naming format of this host is similar to `https://TENANT-SLUG.api.fulfillmenttools.com` while `TENANT-SLUG` is a unique identifier to each environment.
For documentation purposes the URLs referenced in the documentation are abbreviated by:

[.text-center]
`https://{host}`

=== Region
Our service is hosted with Google Cloud Platform. We leverage products that are located either in Region *europe-west1* (St.Ghislain, Belgium) or
*europe-west3* (Frankfurt, Germany).

=== API Versioning
We will release a new version of the API when we make backwards-incompatible changes. The following changes however are considered to be backwards-compatible:

- Adding new API resources.
- Adding new optional request parameters to existing API methods.
- Adding new properties to existing API responses.
- Changing the order of properties in existing API responses.

=== Authorization
Authorization against our API works by using a registered user and using the *OAuth-Protocol*. If the authentication
was successfully, a signed JWT Token is issued to the caller which can be used to authenticate against the API or to get a fresh token
from the authentication provider using the `refresh_token`.  Currently we are using the Google Identity Provider as an authentication provider.

Logging in and obtaining a valid token can for example be done by issuing the following request:

[source,curl]
----
curl --request POST 'https://identitytoolkit.googleapis.com/v1/accounts:signInWithPassword?key=<AUTHKEY>' \
        --header 'Content-Type: application/json' \
        --data-raw '{"email": username,  "password": password, "returnSecureToken": true}'
----
A valid `username` and `password` as well as the customer specific `AUTH_KEY` can be obtained from fulfillmenttools when the tenant is entitled to use the API.

As a result, an answer looking similar to this is responded:
[source,json]
----
{
  "kind": "identitytoolkit#VerifyPasswordResponse",
  "localId": "jdwBuqqYWdYoqWTH1Xv85EJJMpm2",
  "email": "yourlogin@yourdomain.com",
  "displayName": "",
  "idToken": "eyJhbGciOiJSUzI1NiIsImtpZCI6ImMzZjI3NjU0MmJmZmUN0WU5OGMyMGQ2MDNlYmUyYmExMTc2ZWRhMzMiLCJ0eXAiOiJKV1QifQ.eyJpc3MiOiJodHRwczovL3NlY3VyZXRva2VuLmdvb2dsZS5jb20vb2NmZi1kZXYtYm94ZmlzaC12MS1ibHViIiwiYXVkIjoib2NmZi1kZXYtYm94ZmlzaC12MS1ibHViIiwiYXV0aF90aW1lIjoxNTkyODI0MDg2LCJ1c2VyX2lkIjoiamR3QnVxcVlXZFlvcVdUSDFYdjg1RUpKTXBtMiIsInN1YiI6Impkd0J1cXFZV2RZb3FXVEgxWHY4NUVKSk1wbTIiLCJpYXQiOjE1OTI4MjQwODYsImV4cCI6MTU5MjgyNzY4NiwiZW1haWwiOiJ0ZXN0QHRlc3QuZGUiLCJlbWFpbF92ZXJpZmllZCI6ZmFsc2UsImZpcmViYXNlIjp7ImlkZW50aXRpZXMiOnsiZW1haWwiOlsidGVzdEB0ZXN0LmRlIl19LCJzaWduX2luX3Byb3ZpZGVyIjoicGFzc3dvcmQifX0.nTlNZTj5B3-lOToCuzEFIqTQSz4cPY1lOhdj12-RG1wOTlOoS_u5JGi4Zw4S684o07381g3ooC_B-KM2UhqaQMAkWfA_OA1cJgD_rrAdIUov_cuYdCYXHmvI-8kAajsy6R08Uh3lQYHx9tmyzbweqDFluGXEc9huH-QoWfoiwZ9Y1sjguAgC1ZCbQi3AkgKcKOqHVn8bGFxYK6KxoyXMZxaiFrfwjMQ-lov0554akQDBU0gAqLCszXtmQP7rNI5boeMIA1vo0myTXwvmYLMHIVJVn6Ej-I2SSAY1OCdafgF6k492lxJN8lJhsTsJfCynLgbiNgHJJxtBXSTSFnp2fA",
  "registered": true,
  "refreshToken": "AE0u-NeGDdHWPB0RjOYOL5AlfSO6r8CvMO6eLSXxdjMG9xiXQmBxZKJgu9OSwZ2JJc2jgSTgiNFYTFYmd1DAlfcCzpunAOF6JC8ZofkrkM75lTjMyQgxWlGWIP24dk2qaMvtAPt2oK8RtsjKx4TRQosFagokGTukQKxSWxSpTEDZl0QbWM9zmbBjzBqSK5yCWMwK2qHJpYgfJvoyAyReo76mRDC36NUpRMKoncagBq30OFCJkEgpvyI",
  "expiresIn": "3600"
}
----
The value of `idToken` can be used in a HTTP call within the `Authorization` Header in a request towards our API like this:

`Authorization: Bearer eyJhbGciOiJSUzI1NiIsImtpZCI6I...`

Refreshing the access token (which expires by default after 60 minutes) is done by using the value of the field `refreshToken`. The following snippet shows how a call is issued in order to get a new access token by using a refresh token:
[source,bash]
----
curl --request POST 'https://securetoken.googleapis.com/v1/token?grant_type=refresh_token&refresh_token=<REFRESH_TOKEN>&key=<AUTHKEY>'
----

=== Representations
The fulfillmenttools API currently offers `application/json` as the standard representation of request- and response-bodies.

=== Timeouts & Response Times
Currently each endpoint can have a response time of up to 60 seconds.

=== Update Guarantees
The API provides different update guarantees for different kinds of requests.

==== Strong Consistency
Each resource provides read-after-write consistency. Read-after-write consistency means that when an entity is updated, The changes that were made are instantly availabe after waiting for the successful response and reading the same entity.

==== Eventual Consistency
Some updates are not visible immediately in the used clients (especially mobile and web clients) after the update. For example, if a shipment was created which is by design an asynchronous process, updating the shipment itself provides read-after-write consistency, but the actual visibility in said clients is updated with a delay by the platform.

These delayed updates provide an Eventual Consistency guarantee. It means that after a delay you will be able to see the changes that you or a follow up process performed.

These delays can vary depending on the amount of data to update. We try to keep these delays as small as possible.

=== Optimistic Concurrency Control (Optimistic Locking)
Many API resources use optimistic concurrency control to prevent lost updates when making changes to existing data concurrently. These resources have a version attribute. When sending (partial) updates to these resources, the expected (and to the client last known version) of a resource is sent as a part of the request.

After making an update, the HTTP response body contains the new version of the resource. An API client must wait for the new version before sending follow-up requests.

Background processes and other events can also change a resource’s version number without any requests sent from an API client directly to the resource. Do not rely on a consistently incremented version number.

The API does not use ETag and If-Match HTTP headers for the purpose of optimistic concurrency control.

If a version mismatch occurs, the API returns a 409 HTTP status (Conflict) error.

=== Resource Timestamps
Timestamps as created- or lastModified or other fields that represent a date are always UTC Timestamps corresponding to Coordinated Universal Time (UTC), for example 2020-06-22T12:10:31.000Z.

=== Pagination Interface
The fulfillmenttools platform offers a pagination interface for some endpoints. Pagination is done based on size and page provided in the request by using query parameters,
you will get the portion data according to requested parameters:
[source,bash]
----
GET /api/orders?size=10&page=2
----
This call would return the second page of your orders and contains 10 orders.

Commit message:

FFT-2805: Added human readable explaination for BETA flag

doc/general/general.adoc, after:

== General Topics
=== Host
The fulfillmenttools API is served over HTTPS. A tenant will get his own host once the corresponding
environment has been created. The naming format of this host is similar to `https://TENANT-SLUG.api.fulfillmenttools.com` while `TENANT-SLUG` is a unique identifier to each environment.
For documentation purposes the URLs referenced in the documentation are abbreviated by:

[.text-center]
`https://{host}`

=== Region
Our service is hosted with Google Cloud Platform. We leverage products that are located either in Region *europe-west1* (St.Ghislain, Belgium) or
*europe-west3* (Frankfurt, Germany).

=== API Versioning
We will release a new version of the API when we make backwards-incompatible changes. The following changes however are considered to be backwards-compatible:

- Adding new API resources.
- Adding new optional request parameters to existing API methods.
- Adding new properties to existing API responses.
- Changing the order of properties in existing API responses.
- Adding values to enum fields (this is unusual - please also refer to <<BETA functionality>> for more details.)

=== BETA functionality
Due to the fact that the fulfillmenttools API is not strictly versioned (it does not have a version number assigned to it & it changes (see <<API Versioning>>)) Beta Flags are introduced. Those flags look like this in the OpenAPI-Specification under https://fulfillmenttools.github.io/api-reference-ui/:

image::https://storage.googleapis.com/ocff-assets/api/beta_174x74.png[align="center"]

You will find this flag on ressources, types (or part of types) and a few other places which are under development. If you encounter such a flag it means the following:

- this endpoint, type, etc. might be subject to breaking changes in the future
- it might not be available at all times
- it could disapear without specific warning
- it currently does not fall under our SLA regulations

[IMPORTANT]
====
There are a lot enumerations in the OpenAPI Spec to ease the use of specific values for statuses, etc., for example:
[source,yaml]
----
OrderStatus:
   type: "string"
   enum:
   - "OPEN"
   - "CANCELLED"
   - "LOCKED"
----
Please be aware that adding a value to it is considered a _non breaking change_ (as described <<API Versioning>>). It happens very rarely, but it could happen that another value is added to an enumeration.

However, the tooling around this kind of "exceptional" use of enumerations is not very good: A code generator will most likely produce enumerations which cannot contain different values than the one described. This is why most of the enumerations also carry a BETA-Flag: To make this behaviour more apparent. If you are handling enumerations best practice is to anticipate this kind of behaviour and map unknown enum values to one that you recognize or yield an error.
====

=== Authorization
Authorization against our API works by using a registered user and using the *OAuth-Protocol*. If the authentication
was successfully, a signed JWT Token is issued to the caller which can be used to authenticate against the API or to get a fresh token
from the authentication provider using the `refresh_token`.  Currently we are using the Google Identity Provider as an authentication provider.

Logging in and obtaining a valid token can for example be done by issuing the following request:

[source,curl]
----
curl --request POST 'https://identitytoolkit.googleapis.com/v1/accounts:signInWithPassword?key=<AUTHKEY>' \
        --header 'Content-Type: application/json' \
        --data-raw '{"email": username,  "password": password, "returnSecureToken": true}'
----
A valid `username` and `password` as well as the customer specific `AUTH_KEY` can be obtained from fulfillmenttools when the tenant is entitled to use the API.

As a result, an answer looking similar to this is responded:
[source,json]
----
{
  "kind": "identitytoolkit#VerifyPasswordResponse",
  "localId": "jdwBuqqYWdYoqWTH1Xv85EJJMpm2",
  "email": "yourlogin@yourdomain.com",
  "displayName": "",
  "idToken": "eyJhbGciOiJSUzI1NiIsImtpZCI6ImMzZjI3NjU0MmJmZmUN0WU5OGMyMGQ2MDNlYmUyYmExMTc2ZWRhMzMiLCJ0eXAiOiJKV1QifQ.eyJpc3MiOiJodHRwczovL3NlY3VyZXRva2VuLmdvb2dsZS5jb20vb2NmZi1kZXYtYm94ZmlzaC12MS1ibHViIiwiYXVkIjoib2NmZi1kZXYtYm94ZmlzaC12MS1ibHViIiwiYXV0aF90aW1lIjoxNTkyODI0MDg2LCJ1c2VyX2lkIjoiamR3QnVxcVlXZFlvcVdUSDFYdjg1RUpKTXBtMiIsInN1YiI6Impkd0J1cXFZV2RZb3FXVEgxWHY4NUVKSk1wbTIiLCJpYXQiOjE1OTI4MjQwODYsImV4cCI6MTU5MjgyNzY4NiwiZW1haWwiOiJ0ZXN0QHRlc3QuZGUiLCJlbWFpbF92ZXJpZmllZCI6ZmFsc2UsImZpcmViYXNlIjp7ImlkZW50aXRpZXMiOnsiZW1haWwiOlsidGVzdEB0ZXN0LmRlIl19LCJzaWduX2luX3Byb3ZpZGVyIjoicGFzc3dvcmQifX0.nTlNZTj5B3-lOToCuzEFIqTQSz4cPY1lOhdj12-RG1wOTlOoS_u5JGi4Zw4S684o07381g3ooC_B-KM2UhqaQMAkWfA_OA1cJgD_rrAdIUov_cuYdCYXHmvI-8kAajsy6R08Uh3lQYHx9tmyzbweqDFluGXEc9huH-QoWfoiwZ9Y1sjguAgC1ZCbQi3AkgKcKOqHVn8bGFxYK6KxoyXMZxaiFrfwjMQ-lov0554akQDBU0gAqLCszXtmQP7rNI5boeMIA1vo0myTXwvmYLMHIVJVn6Ej-I2SSAY1OCdafgF6k492lxJN8lJhsTsJfCynLgbiNgHJJxtBXSTSFnp2fA",
  "registered": true,
  "refreshToken": "AE0u-NeGDdHWPB0RjOYOL5AlfSO6r8CvMO6eLSXxdjMG9xiXQmBxZKJgu9OSwZ2JJc2jgSTgiNFYTFYmd1DAlfcCzpunAOF6JC8ZofkrkM75lTjMyQgxWlGWIP24dk2qaMvtAPt2oK8RtsjKx4TRQosFagokGTukQKxSWxSpTEDZl0QbWM9zmbBjzBqSK5yCWMwK2qHJpYgfJvoyAyReo76mRDC36NUpRMKoncagBq30OFCJkEgpvyI",
  "expiresIn": "3600"
}
----
The value of `idToken` can be used in a HTTP call within the `Authorization` Header in a request towards our API like this:

`Authorization: Bearer eyJhbGciOiJSUzI1NiIsImtpZCI6I...`

Refreshing the access token (which expires by default after 60 minutes) is done by using the value of the field `refreshToken`. The following snippet shows how a call is issued in order to get a new access token by using a refresh token:
[source,bash]
----
curl --request POST 'https://securetoken.googleapis.com/v1/token?grant_type=refresh_token&refresh_token=<REFRESH_TOKEN>&key=<AUTHKEY>'
----

=== Representations
The fulfillmenttools API currently offers `application/json` as the standard representation of request- and response-bodies.

=== Timeouts & Response Times
Currently each endpoint can have a response time of up to 60 seconds.

=== Update Guarantees
The API provides different update guarantees for different kinds of requests.

==== Strong Consistency
Each resource provides read-after-write consistency. Read-after-write consistency means that when an entity is updated, The changes that were made are instantly availabe after waiting for the successful response and reading the same entity.

==== Eventual Consistency
Some updates are not visible immediately in the used clients (especially mobile and web clients) after the update. For example, if a shipment was created which is by design an asynchronous process, updating the shipment itself provides read-after-write consistency, but the actual visibility in said clients is updated with a delay by the platform.

These delayed updates provide an Eventual Consistency guarantee. It means that after a delay you will be able to see the changes that you or a follow up process performed.

These delays can vary depending on the amount of data to update. We try to keep these delays as small as possible.

=== Optimistic Concurrency Control (Optimistic Locking)
Many API resources use optimistic concurrency control to prevent lost updates when making changes to existing data concurrently. These resources have a version attribute. When sending (partial) updates to these resources, the expected (and to the client last known version) of a resource is sent as a part of the request.

After making an update, the HTTP response body contains the new version of the resource. An API client must wait for the new version before sending follow-up requests.

Background processes and other events can also change a resource’s version number without any requests sent from an API client directly to the resource. Do not rely on a consistently incremented version number.

The API does not use ETag and If-Match HTTP headers for the purpose of optimistic concurrency control.

If a version mismatch occurs, the API returns a 409 HTTP status (Conflict) error.

=== Resource Timestamps
Timestamps as created- or lastModified or other fields that represent a date are always UTC Timestamps corresponding to Coordinated Universal Time (UTC), for example 2020-06-22T12:10:31.000Z.

=== Pagination Interface
The fulfillmenttools platform offers a pagination interface for some endpoints. Pagination is done based on size and page provided in the request by using query parameters,
you will get the portion data according to requested parameters:
[source,bash]
----
GET /api/orders?size=10&page=2
----
This call would return the second page of your orders and contains 10 orders.
